---
layout: single
title:  "4: what about text?"
date:   2021-09-19 00:17:59 -0500
categories: essentials
related: true
excerpt: "a short entry on turning a text into new email subscribers."
---
## running out of emails
You probably have more phone numbers than emails on your phone. Here is how to invite them to your email list through text messaging.

### same concept
Once again, the idea is to send an invitation with a link to your sign-up landing page.

### mass text
How do you send a lot of people the same text message without ruining their day? Cause we all know, getting put in a group text is a modern curse. 

The answer is the **mass text**. 

Technically this is switching *group messaging* from MMS to SMS. Without getting in the weeds, SMS is your simple words-only texting. MMS is your data using messaging which allows you to send pictures and group people into a group message. 

### different for different phones
#### android phone
These are the phones I have always had. So I can give concrete instructions:
- In the texting app click on the three-dot menu in the upper right corner
- Go to Settings.
- Go to Advanced. *yes, we are getting nerdy*
- At the top is **Group messaging**. After clicking on that, select “Send an SMS reply to all recipients and get individual replies (mass text)”.

With that small change, you can create a group text. And when you send all of them the one text message, you will have created a new text thread between each person and yourself only.

#### iphone
Beats me. [Instructions from online][r&r]

#### samsung is different
I do not have a Samsung phone, but I know they have weird ways of building group texts and making the setting **mass text**. [The best instructions I can find.][r&r]

### my text invitation
>Good day! Sorry to interrupt, but there's a little underground project I work on to help my musician friends “make it” online. You'd be awesome to enter your email at [howmbase.com/ben][howm-ben] to learn about what's happening—Ben Brown

I texted this to over 100 people—family, friends, co-workers, and alumni. Several folks replied back.

## practicals
Shorten your email message from the previous **practicals** to look like a more normal text message. Turn your group messaging to **mass text** mode. Then add everyone into a group. Send the text. Respond to everyone who texts you back.

### resources and references
- [mass text for iPhone][imt]
- [mass text for Samsung][sammt]

## more reading
If you're too scared to follow these instructions, get some encouragement by reading the collection [**new narrative for musicians**][narrative].

If you've done this and you're ready for the next step, read through the collection on [**Patreon**][patreon].

[r&r]: #resources-and-references
[howm-ben]: https://howmbase.com/ben
[narrative]: /narrative/
[patreon]: /patreon/
[imt]: https://discussions.apple.com/thread/5211685
[sammt]: https://www.guidingtech.com/create-group-text-on-samsung-phones/
