---
layout: single
title:  "2: what's real on the internet?"
date:   2021-09-10 00:11:35 -0500
categories: essentials
excerpt: "the internet has an ephemeral quality. things come and go."
---
## two *real* things
Only 2 things have any reality online:
1. your own website
2. a list of emails

The warning is: **do not rely on any platform for your online career.** Platforms can dissolve overnight. No amount of likes or subscribers will be able to follow you from a collapsed platform. 

### old stuff works
Because email and websites have been around since the dawn of the internet, there is reason to believe these things will be with us for a long time. 

#### case for emails
Emails are kinda odd. Emails are an ancient part of the internet but are still heavily used today. People will change physical addresses more often than their email addresses. When someone gives you their email, you have direct access to them with no one in between you and them. 

#### case for a website
When you pay for a website and manage it yourself, you‘ve got your place. You control what is on it and whether it is online or not. A platform can tweak its censorship algorithm and accidentally silence you.

## the practicals
Begin collecting emails by creating a free Mailchimp account. In Mailchimp, you can create a standalone web page that accepts email submissions called a **landing page**. Now you can send links to your new landing page for people to join your email list—more about this in the **next entry**.

If you‘re brave enough to venture into making a website, Squarespace is an elegant option. About $165/yr, including a $20/yr domain name. But if that scares you, just stick with the email collection for now.


### resources and references
- Create a free account with [Mailchimp][mailchimp].
- [Make a Mailchimp landing page][mc-landing-page].



[mailchimp]: https://mailchimp.com/
[mc-landing-page]:  https://mailchimp.com/help/create-a-landing-page/