---
layout: single
title:  "phases of your music career"
date:   2021-10-08 00:10:19 -0500
excerpt: "step through the phases to become a serious independent musician."
---
These are five theoretical phases of a **howm** musician to give a sense of where you are now versus where you'd like to be in your online music career. And hopeful gives an idea of what's next for you.

Phases 0 and 1 are covered in more depth in this entry—[template for starting online][template].

## phase 0: build the net before you fish

- Sign-up for Patreon and Convert Kit

- Choose a Charity you'll be promoting and contributing to through your Patreon

## strong phase 1: go fish

- Through ConvertKit create a landing-page for email sign-ups.

- Send an Invitation to join your email-list to your Existing Contacts. 

- *For musicians with howmcast episodes* Share to your new email-list the link to your Podcast Episode. (Could even automate this for any one new joining your email-list.)

### weak phase 1: go fish without a net

*Here's what you'll do with your podcast episode if you didn't follow Phase 0.*

- Share the link to your Podcast Episode with your Existing Contacts (email or text 15-20 people).

- Share the link to your Social Medias.

*While sharing your podcast episode will benefit you and **howm**, if you haven't set up a Patreon you'll miss out on monthly money.*

## phase 2: foster your patreon
Here's where you refine your ability to provide consistently valuable posts across the internet. 

- Bring patrons into your process, by sharing something you already need to do for your craft.

- Offer valuable info to your Email-list, with occasional Patreon invites.

- Post possibly valuable info to Socials. Test for what works.

- Reach out to others who are just ahead of you in your career and offer collaboration or cross posting material.

## phase 3: get physical
Invest your Patreon money back into the whole thing. 

- Setup a PayPal Business and Stripe accounts.

*These accounts allow you to accept paypal payments and credit/debit card payments online.*

- Produce merchandise and/or an album. Add value to your existing fanbase and allow them to reward you.

- Start Tracking your progress with Google Analytics, Buffer and bit.ly.

*Make predictions and test your efforts against the data.*

## phase 4: discover new fans
Grow beyond the people you already know.

- Create a Leadgenerator—new landing-page offering your highest ranked post in exchange for an email.

*Determine your highest ranked post by studying what you've been tracking.*

- Setup the Leadgenerator through paid ConvertKit and automate the sending of the whatever you're offering to go right to that person's email inbox.

## phase 5: offer your knowledge
Welcome to the professional level. Now you have the know-how people want.

- Setup a paid Calendly account to start offering Consultations for others wanting to do what you've done.

*Calendly can automate the process of scheduling these consultation meetings, as well as handle the payment upfront.*

- Host a Webinar

*Take the thing people most ask you about and offer a webinar of you presentating on the topic. Record the session and offer the recording for email sign-ups or even payment.*

### Congratulations! Your a Serious Independent Musician with Multiple Cash Flows.

There is more ways to grow from here, but at this point you should probably be paying others for consultations and webinars to learn what your next phase is. Funny how that works.

[template]: /template/
