---
layout: single
title:  "entry 3: zero to one an email list"
date:   2021-09-10 00:12:33 -0500
categories: make-it instructions
---
“but wait!? if I need permission to add emails, how do I start the email list?”

## how do you get people on an email list?
**answer:** you have to ask them to join

in the last entry, the practical section says to create an email signup landing page using MailChimp‘s tools. the best would be to create a signup page on your own website but MailChimp works for now. with one of those setup the next step is to invite people to join. but who?

### you‘ve got contacts
you‘ve got a phone and email account that‘s chock-o-block full of folks. most of them at least kinda know you. in those contacts are a number of people who‘d love to stay in the loop on your music.

### sort out the potential mailees
open up your contacts and go down the list identifying anyone who might like to know what you‘re up to. move those folks into a new groups “possible mailees email” and “possible mailees text”. be brave. take a few risks.

make one list for emails and one for text. you‘ll find that you don‘t have both of these for everyone. 


## the clean way to do this
the basic concept is to send people an invitation to join with a link to take them to the signup landing page.

### mass email
you need to send a lot of people the same email. while putting everyone into a BCC line in an email might work, I didn't do that. I went a slightly fancier route and used a classic thing called **mail-merge**. 

luckily Google has made this simple. with a Gmail account, a draft email, and a Google Sheets spreadsheet you can send a single email to a lot of people, even making it custom (i.e. add their names).

[instructions on using Google stuff for mail-merge][gmailmerge] and [a video I made going over how][ml-mailmerge-vid]. watch that video for more info.

>Subject: Hey First name. -Ben Brown
>
>Hello First name,
>
>You're super busy and probably haven't heard anything about my little underground project, but for the past two years I've lovingly poured work into helping broke musician friends “make it” online. If you'd like to learn more about what we're doing together–may I invite you to enter your email on this page [howmbase.com/ben][howm-ben]. *I hate sending emails so don't expect a lot of them.*
>
>Cheers,
>
>Ben Brown

### mass text
this is for the next entry.


## the practicals



### resources and references



[howm-ben]: https://howmbase.com/ben
[ml-mailmerge-vid]: https://youtu.be/iS_-mzZVlr8
[gmailmerge]: https://developers.google.com/workspace/solutions/mail-merge
[mc-landing-page]:   https://mailchimp.com/help/create-a-landing-page/
