---
layout: single
title:  "entry 2: one 2 things are real"
date:   2021-09-10 00:11:35 -0500
categories: make-it instructions
---
the internet has an ephemeral quality. things come and go. 

only 2 to things have any reality online:
- your own website
- emails

the warning is: **don't rely on any platform for your online career.** any platforms can dissovle overnight and no amount of likes or subscribes will be able to follow from there. 

# old stuff works
because email and websites have been around forever there is reason to believe they‘ll be with us for a long time. 

# case for emails
emails are kinda odd. they are an ancient part of the internet, but still heavily used today. people will change physical addresses more often than their email address. when someone gives you their email, you‘ve got direct access to them. noone is in between you and them. 

# case for a website
when you pay for a website and manage it yourself, you‘ve got your place. you control what‘s on it whether it‘s online or not. a platform can tweak their censorship algorithm and accidentally silence you.

## the practicals
begin collecting emails. create a free [MailChimp][mailchimp] account. in MailChimp you can create a standalone web page that collects emails. text and email the people down your contact list, inviting them to join your mailing list.

if you‘re brave enough to venture into making a website, SquareSpace is an elegant option. about $165/yr. but if that scares you, just stick with the email collection for now.


### resources and references
mailchimp email signup standalone site [instuctions][mc-landing-page].

create a [new gmail account][google-account].


[mailchimp]: https://mailchimp.com/
[mc-landing-page]:   https://mailchimp.com/help/create-a-landing-page/
[mark-w]: https://www.southplainscollege.edu/faculty/wallney-mark.php
