---
category: new narrative
excerpt: "who are these people? what do they want from you?"
title: "3: your patrons"
date:   2021-09-20 00:19:55 -0500
---
### who are these people?
Ultimately patrons are partners. They receive joy from what you do. They desire the best for you and from you. 

The ideal patron will be patient and give you room to create. They will enable you to [develop as an artist][r&r], by providing financial support and valuable feedback.

#### you probably already know them
Until you reach the point where your music is in front of complete stranges, patrons will be your family, friends, co-workers and alumni. 

### what do they want from you?
- **Availability**—Patrons want to hear from you. I'm sure many of your family and old friends feel like they don't hear from you enough.
- **Participation**—Patrons want to be in an exclusive group, to be apart of what you're doing. 
- **Growth**—Patrons want to see you grow. 

#### how do you attract these people?
A well crafted message. But that's for [another time][r&r].

## service
The best frame to view your relationship to your patrons is one of service to them. 

Answer this question: *How can you bring your patrons joy?*

To answer this question you'll need to know your audience and your message as if they *were* you.

### bringing joy
In a true sense, if you make something that brings **you** joy there is a slice of the world that will find joy in it too. And since the world is so large, that tiny slice can be a viable group for supporting you. This concept is fleshed out in the now famous internet article [1,000 True Fans][r&r] So bringing joy to yourself can be a guiding star. But remember: you're in service to others.

#### what patrons aren't asking for?
As we went over in the last entry, musicians bringing to the table deeply valuable ways of being: meaning, flow, spirituality, and philosophy. While noone will request these things, using your creativity to deliver these intangibles to your patrons will be one of the most fufilling things you can do as a musician. 

## old patronage
In the past patrons where rich dudes that wanted to brag to their friends about what renowned artists were in their service and occassionally ask for elaborate pieces made for them.

### new patronage
Luckily patronage can now be done by the people. A large cloud of normal people can pledge inconsequencial amounts of money that when brought together can change a life—your life. A democratic patronage, which eases uncomfortable power dynamics that would have plagued the old patronage.

#### boundaries
In that vein let me give this warning: setup heathly boundaries! You shouldn't open up your life to any one who can spare a few dollars a month. While patrons are in your musical inner circle, that doesn't automatically put them into the same inner circle your family and friends occupy. 

And while we're issuing warnings: you shouldn't promise output that makes your life more stressful and out of balance. Longevity of your work requires the concious crafting of [life-work balance][r&r].

### wrapping up
When you open yourself up to receiving support from patrons, you're open yourself up to a partnership and relationship. While this relationship is not about doing more, like all relationship, it does take real energy to maintain. 

But you set the boundaries and everything about this relationship. You're in the captains seat. Although there may be responsibilities you'll be taking on as captian. We'll talk about that **next**.

### resources and references
- Artist development entry coming in the future.
- Refining your message entry coming in the future.
- [1000 True Fans][1k]
konmari- cause if I'm going to talk about joy and sparks I've gotta talk about maria kondo and the life changing magic of tidying up.

[r&r]: #resources-and-references
[1k]: 