---
category: new narrative
excerpt: "reshaping the story you tell yourself."
title: "1: your new story"
date:   2021-09-17 00:10:33 -0500
---
### who are you?
You're a musicians. More truly your a musician + anything else you care deeply about.

### where did you come from?
An overwhelming love for music that brought joy and meaning.

### where are you now?
In a transforming business, that has changed for your benefit and in a world in need of your meaning.

### where are you going?
To directly deliver the joy and meaning you receive from music to others.

## why do what you do?
Your **why** is to step out of the way and let others have the same spark of joy and meaning you found in music when it first captured you.

## your Story

### beginings
Remember your first moments falling in love with music. The warm fuzzies you couldn't resist. Your life redirected to a brand new path from that moment on.

### the desire
Feeling overwhelmed by music, you wanted to make it. You wanted to experience music, to understand it, **to share**.

### but
But money. Life and its practical needs took precedents, over sharing this spark. And worse, the music business has transformed. Now the path is much less clear and a fear of music being pointless creeps in. Feels like putting music aside is the most realistic and responsible thing to do.

### resolution
Wait a minute though. Return to your beginings with music. The joy. The meaning. A purpose flows from that. You were captured by music for a reason. Our world needs that spark you carry with you.

And I'm here to tell you the transformation of the music business is a good thing, especially for you. New paths opened up for musicians to share their spark with and be supported by others all over the world. Unlike everbefore you can directly connect with **Patrons** who care about your music and you. A beautifully reciprocal partnership awaits with the fruit of joy and meaning.

## resources and references
- [The spark in childhood and what to do with it as an adult][CapD] is spoken about eloquently by YouTube's Captain Disillusion. *This is kinda weird but inspiring. The portion that matters here is 11:59-13:45.*

[CapD]: https://youtu.be/eLAwG7CjF_k?t=718