---
category: patreon why and how
excerpt: "who are these people?"
date:   2021-09-17 00:18:33 -0500
title: "1: patrons"
---
### who are these people?
Ultimately patrons are partners. They receive joy from what you do. They desire the best for you and from you. 

The ideal patron will be patient and give you room to create for them. They will enable you to [develop as an artist][r&r], by providing financial support and valuable feedback.

### you probably already know them
Until you reach the point where your music is in front of complete stranges, patrons will be your family, friends, co-workers and alumni. 

Many of them will feel like they don't hear from you enough. Many of them will love to **be apart** of what you're doing.

## service
The best frame to view your relationship to your patrons is one of service to them. Answer this question: How can you bring your patrons joy? 

To answer this question you'll need to know your audience and refine [your message][r&r]. In a true sense, if you make something that brings **you** joy there is a slice of the world that find joy in it too. And since the world is so large, that tiny slice can be a viable group for supporting you.

### boundaries
But let me give this warning: setup heathly boundaries! You shouldn't open up your life to any one who can spare a few dollars a month. And you shouldn't promise output that makes your life more stressful and out of balance.

While patrons are in your musical inner circle, that doesn't automatically put them into the same inner circle your family and friends occupy. Longevity of your work requires the concious crafting of [life-work balance][r&r].

## patrons come in a few forms

### altruist
Many patrons will support you completly unconditionally. No matter what you do, they'll sign-up to send you monthly support and never question it again. These are the people you're looking for to start out. Most likely they already now who you are and care about you as a person.

Often this is how I operate as a patron. I commit a small monthly amount and honestly don't care if I hear anything from those folks. Which often makes the altruist patron not the best source for feedback.

### exchanger
These patrons will give you monthly support if you can offer something they're interested in. They may love literaly any behind-the-scenes info you can post. Or they might prefer well packaged information you have as a musician (ex: revealing cool music, resources for learning instruments or your personal philosophy made explicit).

### purchaser
Similar to the *exchanger*, they enjoy what you do but they need to get something  back for their money. Often these people love limited releases, deluxe versions and things to wear or place on the shelf. 

Merchandise is the anser here. Merch deserves its [own post][r&r], but here I'll say: make at least one quality piece of merch that is something you'd personally love to own.


### resources and references

[r&r]: #resources-and-references